---

tags: meeting

---

Continuing Meeting Minutes
===

:::danger
**General info**
- **Location:** Zoom room 622 4760 7160
- **Zoom password:** nrsebw
- **Zoom link** https://aalto.zoom.us/j/62247607160?pwd=dU1KdFFmOWZrNkk4U1c1RHpzYnU2Zz09
- **Contact:** Jarno <jarno.rantaharju@aalto.fi>
- **Date and time**: biweekly starting 18.01.2021, 10 CET/11 EET
:::

:::info
**For every meeting:**
* Choose a chair
   * Keep the meeting on topic and under 30 minutes
* list of participants
* Mark actions, to be done by whom and until when
* note discussions made
:::

<!-- edit things below this line -->

# 2021-02-01

:::info
**Date:** Feb 01, 2021, 10AM (CET)
**Participants**:
:::

## Agenda
1. How to disseminate RSE survey?
   - Survey will be sent out March/April 
2. Updates about conference?
3. What to do with contact@nordic-rse.org?
4. Things we should do from the online meetup.
    - we have notes, presentations, group photo
    - blogpost?
5. Do we want to start a Nordic RSE knowledgebase?

## Other topics that may arise


<!-- Copy any items for next meeting above this line -->

---

<!-- Agendas of previous meetings. Do not edit below this line. -->

# 2021-01-18

:::info
- **Date:** Jan 18, 2021 10 AM(CET)
- **Participants:**
    - Radovan Bast, CodeRefinery
    - Richard Darst, CodeRefinery&Aalto
    - Anne Fouilloux, CodeRefinery
    - Patric Holmwall, UU
    - Haagen Waade, Kavli Institute/NTNU
    - Naoe Tatara, University of Oslo Library of Medicine and Science, CodeRefinery
    - Malin Sandström, INCF (malin@incf.org)
    - Samantha Wittke, FGI/Aalto
    - Jarno Rantaharju, Aalto
:::


- Choose a chair: Jarno
- Keep the meeting on topic and at 30 minutes

## Nordic RSE
- Invited new members to join. Introductions if necessary.
- RSE survey: any updates?
    - Survey questions: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eyuzP7zuQeyXHzO6alhK1Pz8Yohbl_bL78GjIAEGcks/
    - Try to add question about funding landscape (in free form)
    - Survey will be sent out March/April (do I remember this right?)
- 29 members registered

## Conference
- What do we think about our changes for May?
  - We recommend to the organization committee to not have this in-person conference in May 2021 due to pandemic and travel restrictions.
  - Anne will inform the organizing committee and Thor about this.
    - One problem (probably nothing we can do about it): we will probably lose the budget if we cannot use it in 2021

## Other topics that may arise
- For meeting minutes: do we aim for one document per meeting? or one document that is updated in place?
- we move to https://hackmd.io/team/nordic-rse
    - people have to be in team (ask from jarno/samantha to be added)
    - we can connect it to github and share non editable version via website
    - editable only for members

---

# 2020-12-09

## Nordic RSE
 - No meeting on the 23rd?
   - Add this to the website (Jarno)
   - Find a meeting time for bi-weekly meetings in 2021. Jarno will create a Doodle poll.
   - Starting on week 2
 - RSE survey: any updates?
 - What to do with contact@nordic-rse.org? 
 - Online meetup went well. Many things to address in coming meetings.
   - 105 registrations
   - Unique participants on Zoom:
     - Monday, 81 (greater than 1 hour: 66, greater than 30 minutes: 77)
     - Tuesday, 78 (greater than 2 hours: 45)
     - Wednesday, 73 (greater than 2 hours: 48)
 - 26 members registered

## Other topics that may arise
 - Set up a post online meetup meeting (Jarno)
 - Themes that need to be discussed in a new near:
   - OC/PC for the conference in May

---

# 2020-11-11

## Nordic RSE
 - RSE survey: No updates (See Patric’s post on chat)
 - What to do with contact@nordic-rse.org? 
 - People are busy with CodeRefinery, maybe we cannot address this.
 - Can we start accepting members next week?
 - Should we just accept the most basic necessary info, or try to decide everything we will need?
   - Name
   - Email
   - Place of Residence: Country, city / municipality
   - Affiliation (Optional)

## Other topics that may arise

---

# 2020-11-11

## Online Event 
 - 2.5 weeks to go!
 - Plan for extra meetings.
   - Friday
   - Next week
 - Abstract and program meeting today at 14
 - Abstracts only sent to those interested / invited
 - Advertising
   - DK: Birgitte/DeIC (Naoe)
   - FI: Richard will ask about CSC advertisement
   - Abstract submission deadline postponed to next Monday. (Talk about it at 14)
   - How late can we make this? 
 - Keynote titles?
   - Alys Brett. Need title.
   - Richard Darst: RSE program design for equality (Is this the title?)
 - Which platform should we use? Depends on the number of participants and abstracts.
   - HackMD + Zoom + gather.town? (since we know these tools)
   - HackMD + Zoom
     - Discussion in different breakout rooms
     - Coordinate rooms on hackpad
     - Simple, we already know all we need to do

 - Roles for the event:
   - Tech related:
   - Abstract review
 - Program practicalities
   - Scheduling and speaker coordination

 - What else needs to happen before the event?

## Nordic RSE
 - RSE survey
   - Actions needed?
   - There is a meeting Nov 17, 4 pm
 - Jeremy drafted this very good text: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r2YdGZJMgGqZWNA2Itk8Vgdu-XUoR_0iBfB2ovFx-8A/
   - Who/how is following up?
 - What to do with contact@nordic-rse.org?

## Other topics that may arise

---

# 2020-11-04

## Online Event 
 - 3.5 weeks to go!
 - Meeting frequency from here on?
   - For planning meetings we need weekly short update meetings
   - Meeting day: Wednesdays are problematic for CodeRefinery workshop contributors
 - Poll on chat to find out which day or which time is better for planning meetings. This does not mean we need to move the bi-weekly community meetings. Radovan will ask on chat about time slots (Monday or Friday, alternatively afternoons)
 - Advertising (also next point)
   - “i've announced it via SNIC training newsletter and SeRC, will do reruns in those channels and try to think of new channels”
   - Will appear in PDC newsletter
   - ~~Radovan will send to nordic-rse-announcements~~
   - ~~Radovan will talk with Vigdis (Sigma2) to get the info to Norway HPC users/ newsletter~~
   - ~~Twitter not done yet, Radovan will send current draft. We need to send something every few days.~~
   - ~~Slack on NeIC: Radovan will write~~
   - ~~“UK” RSE Slack: Radovan will write on general~~
   - ~~Naoe will ask for an email list of RSEs within UiO to Sabry and send to them.~~
   - Jarno will ask Juho about advertising through CSC
   - ~~DK: Birgitte/DeIC (Naoe)~~
   - ~~EE: Radovan will inform Ilja about the event to inform their network~~
   - ~~FI: Richard will ask about CSC advertisement~~
   - ~~FI: Richard will post to HPC users list after program a bit more refined~~
   - ~~SINTEF: Radovan~~
 - Scope of advertising: It’s about Nordic RSE, everybody who is interested in this, is welcome
 - Abstract submission deadline next Monday. 
 - Should we postpone the deadline? (When should we announce this?)
 - A couple of abstracts. How can you advertise more?
 - Proposal incubator (https://github.com/nordic-rse/meetups/issues)
 - Public discussion on a program suggestion
 - Keynote titles?
   - Alys Brett. Need title.
   - Richard Darst: RSE program design for equality (Is this the title?)
 - Which platform should we use? Depends on the number of participants and abstracts.
   - HackMD + Zoom + gather.town? (since we know these tools)

## What else needs to happen before the event?
## Nordic RSE
 - RSE survey
   - There is a meeting Nov 17, 4 pm
 - Jeremy drafted this very good text: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r2YdGZJMgGqZWNA2Itk8Vgdu-XUoR_0iBfB2ovFx-8A/
   - Who/how is following up?
   - What to do with contact@nordic-rse.org?

## Other topics that may arise

---

# 2020-10-28

 - Choose a secretary
   - Maintain these notes
   - Post a short brief on the CodeRefinery chat

## Online Event 
 - Registration and abstract submission are open!
 - A couple of abstracts. How can you advertise more?
 - Keynote titles?
 - Which platform should we use? Depends on the number of participants and abstracts.

 - What else needs to happen before the event?

## Other topics that may arise

---


# 2020-10-14

## Nordic RSE
 - When an action requires review, also assign a reviewer
 - Who has access and admin rights on GitHub? Who should?
 - In the interest of time, concentrate on the online event in this meeting?

 - GitHub organization management
   - org management became a bit of a bottleneck.
   - Thor: Add to the github organization: susamerz, eglerean, samumantha, (done)
   - Thor: Make admin: rantahar, rkdarst (done)

 - Nordic-RSE membership
   - Useful to have this set up before December, so that people can join in that event.
   - Why would someone want to join? What are we doing?  This story must be developed by December.
   - Need to collect names and locations of residence (to be a formal association)
   - where?  private google drive?

 - What is Nordic-RSE's value for its members?
   - Jeremy: a lot is for advocacy of RSE value, since that's something that you can't do alone
   - In UK it was advocating for RSE groups but that's not the only way, for example you could advocate for individual positions
   - Discussion copied to https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r2YdGZJMgGqZWNA2Itk8Vgdu-XUoR_0iBfB2ovFx-8A/edit

## Online Event 
 - 7 weeks from now :)
 - https://nordic-rse.org/nordic-events/2020-12-01-get-together/
 - Is the information on the website currently right?
 - Advertising: When and where?
 - Do we have an email template?
 - Thor: make a template email to send out
 - Enrico can help with making a twitter card header for the page [I will chat with Radovan]
 - Jarno: Check agenda (review: Richard?)

 - Keynote talks:
   - Alys:
     - Confirmed 
     - (Jeremy) Ask for title
     - slides from de-RSE: https://de-rse.org/de/conf2019/talk/ZD3B3K/
     - Alys: “This would be half the length so I'd focus on material about the history and motivation for the RSE movement (roles, groups and regional/national communities) and update for more recent developments. It's more suitable as an overview for people involved in research & software but newish to the RSE concept and community I'd say...”

   - 10 min introduction to the event Nordic RSE, CR
   - Alys (30 min plus QA), suggestion is to start 1 pm UK time, 2 pm Norway time, 3 pm Finland time
   - CodeRefinery

 - Contact email:
   - currently to Anne, Radovan, Radek: we need more people
   - To be added: ??? Jarno, Naoe
   - Use Freshdesk?

 - Abstract submission:
   - Form on NeIC Indico: ask for a 3 sentence description
   - May as well reuse that form for this workshop
   - (Issues on nordic-rse.github.io repo - no, don't change now, we will use the existing form)

 - Registration:
   - lightweight but people need to fill out short form to get connection details
   - Registration will be part of the abstract submission in indico
   - Mandatory: Name, email, privacy policy agreement
   - Optional: Country, Affiliation 


 - Proposed types of events
   - Panel session to raise the profile of some people in the community
   - Breakout sessions with questions work well and then reporting back to plenary
 - https://qiqochat.com/about
   - Issue: doesn’t offer lots of functionality
   - Users can switch between breakout rooms
   - Why not used in previous event: gets pricey quickly, charges per user and minute
 - https://remo.co/conference/ 
 - https://gather.town/
   - If too many people in same area of virtual room then video connection will flicker on and off. As long as only 5-6 people in each cluster it works fine
   - Overall good experience with this platform though
 - https://theonline.town/overview
   - Need to explore these platforms to see which work best for networking and switching between breakout rooms / sessions

 - What else needs to happen?

---

# 2020-09-30

 - December get-together (https://nordic-rse.org/nordic-events/2020-12-01-get-together/)
   - What actions are needed to make this happen?
   - Is the information on the website currently right?

## Program in the Online Event
 - Monday (Nov 30): Keynote talks
   - Alys, but needs to be confirmed
   - Suggestion: double-keynote:
      - 10 min introduction to the event Nordic RSE, CR
      - Alys (30 min plus QA), suggestion is to start 1 pm UK time, 2 pm Norway time, 3 pm Finland time - to be confirmed
      - ACTION: JC to contact Alys and confirm as soon as possible

 - Abstract submission:
   - form
   - 5 minutes
   - 3 sentence description
   - but also provide some platform (github issues on nordic-rse.github.io repo ? we can even create a separate one, let’s see) to propose and discuss ideas
   - also check https://carpentryconnect.org/online/ for reusable ideas
   - we will use the neic indico

 - Registration:
   - lightweight but people need to fill out short form to get connection details


| Tuesday (all times CET):     |     |
| -------- | -------- |
| 9 -      10: | lighting talks |
| 10 - 10:30:  | coffee / freeform conversation| 
| 10:30 - 11:30: |  Talks/workshops/events| 
| 11:30 - 12:30: |  Lunch / freeform conversation| 
| 12:30 -      14: |  Discussion sessions (some with short topic  introduction), can be a la collab workshop where a group discusses, takes notes, and the result is a speed blog - topics would be pitched in advance| 
|              |    Workshops| 
|              |    Reprohacks | 
|  14 -       : |  coffee / conversation| 



| Wednesday (same structure as tue):     |     |
| -------- | -------- |
|9 - 10: | Panel session|
|     10 - 10:30:| coffee / freeform conversation|
|10:30 - 11:30: | Talks/workshops/events|
|11:30 - 12:30: | Lunch / freeform conversation|
|12:30 -      14: | Discussion sessions (some with short topic introduction), can be a la collab workshop where a group discusses, takes notes, and the result is a speed blog - topics would be pitched in advance|
|              |  Workshops|
|              |  Reprohacks |
| 14 -       :|  coffee / conversation|

- Proposed types of events
  - Panel session to raise the profile of some people in the community
  - Breakout sessions with questions work well and then reporting back to plenary

- https://qiqochat.com/about
  - Issue: doesn’t offer lots of functionality
  - Users can switch between breakout rooms
  - Why not used in previous event: gets pricey quickly, charges per user and minute
- https://remo.co/conference/ 
- https://gather.town/
  - If too many people in same area of virtual room then video connection will flicker on and off. As long as only 5-6 people in each cluster it works fine
  - Overall good experience with this platform though
- https://theonline.town/overview
  - Need to explore these platforms to see which work best for networking and switching between breakout rooms / sessions


## Nordic-RSE in general
- What is Nordic-RSE?
- Relation to CodeRefinery
- Support International Council of RSE Associations
  - we formally support this as Nordic RSE, Anne is our delegate
- Membership / taking new people on board / github org permissions
- Other activities we can do
- What data storage locations do we have and how are they accessed?
   - Github
   - google drive
   - Twitter

- Decisions made in biweekly meeting
   - How to suggest topics?
- Create membership system
  - An association must keep a registry of its members
    - Name
    - Place of Residence
  - In addition (according to our statutes) we would need
    - Email
  - The purpose of the registry must be specified when collecting the information and cannot be prospective (cannot collect just in case). The data must be necessary for the functioning of the association.
   - Members of the association have a right to see the list of members’ names and places of residence. Email does not need to be shared
   - The form needs to include a privacy statement that describes how the information is used and for how long it is stored. For an association this is generally for the duration of the membership.
   - Make "About us" tab on nordic-rse.org, start collecting pages under there (bylaws, membership process, etc).
   - inform about community calls on the website


