# 2022-12-15

:::info
- **Chair**: Jarno
- **Participants**: Jarno, Matteo, 
:::


### Agenda

- Intro / welcome
- choose chair for next meeting
    - Matteo (Luca will chair after M)
- actions followup (scroll down to see actions from previous meeting)
- Events / planning for the spring
    - Especially summer event. We should start now.
        - In person or online?
- seminar series
- Mastodon
    - We set it up last time. Reminder here for discussion.
- AOB


# 2022-12-01

:::info
- **Chair**: Matteo
- **Participants**: Jarno, Matteo, Samantha, Maria, Stephan
:::

### Actions
- [MT] create repository about Open Source data and policy

### Old Actions
- ~~[LF] add seminar to webpage~~
- [MT] create repository about Open Source data and policy

### Agenda

- Intro / welcome
- choose chair for next meeting
    - Jarno
- actions followup
- seminar series
    - 5-6 people present
    - it went well, discussion in the end was interesting
    - too bad there were few people
- Advent of Code
    - People are having fun
- Mastodon
    - We still don't have a Nordic RSE account
    - We probably will do it eventually
- AOB 





# 2022-11-17

:::info
- **Chair**: MT 
- **Participants**: Matteo, Jarno, Stephan, Luca, Richard
:::

### Actions
- [JR] ~~add info about seminars and AoC on webpage~~
- [LF] add seminar to webpage
- [MT] create repository about Open Source data and policy

### Agenda

- Intro / welcome
- choose chair
    - Matteo volunteered
- Advent of Code
    - how to avoid spoilers?
    - there are already two streams (did I get this right?)
        - no currently only one, but could create a second one where you don't need to mark solutions as spoilers
    - there is already a Nordic-RSE scoreboard
- actions followup
- seminar series
    - upcoming talk by Brad Chamberlain on 30th November
    - NVIDIA calls
        - for the next talk, my contact at NVIDIA showed interest in our seminar and proposed a couple of topics:
          - NVIDIA Modulus, our AI framework for solving PDE. It could be quite interesting for many research teams working on physics informed NN and related problems.
          - Intro to Multi-GPU ML trainings, I could present some best practices for training deep learning models with NVIDIA GPUs.
- AOB 
    - (stands for Any Other Business/Bullshit/Bananas/...)
    - Matteo is in touch with Sanna Isabel Ulfsparre about EOSC (European Open Source Cloud) results: https://www.eosc-synergy.eu/results/
    - Matteo will organize a folder on Github containing data from the collaboration with Sanna Isabel and a little contestualization on how it concerns Nordic-RSE

# 2022-11-03

:::info
- **Chair**: 
- **Participants**:
:::

### Actions

### Agenda

- Intro / welcome
- choose chair
- actions followup
- seminar series
    - next talk 30.11
    - Sabry had once proposed to give a talk about containers
- Advent of Code
- AOB

# 2022-10-06

:::info
- Chair:
- **Participants**: Luca, Enrico, Radovan
:::

### Actions

~~- [LF] follow-up with people who submitted a contribution~~
~~- [LF] mention annual meeting on the webpage~~
~~- [LF] send sheema email~~
~~- [RB] unconference website ~~


### Agenda

- unconference
  - how to make webpage more appealing
    - too much text (RB)
    - how to contribute is hard to find (RB)
    - twitter banner and website banner (EG)
    - follow-up on issues (LF)
- Oct 13 is International RSE day, we can participate in a Twitter campaign with the hashtag #IntlRSEday
- Seminar series
- Updates from international RSE Council
  - All: please discuss with your associations the idea of an International RSE conference 2024 (probably too soon) or 2025 (more likely) by “rebranding” the UK-RSECon to an international conference since the Council does not have the financial structure to organize a conference of this size
  - Hashtag for October 13: #IntlRSEday



# 2022-09-22

:::info
- Chairing: MT
- **Participants**: Matteo, Richard, Radovan
:::

### Actions
- [MT] *Unconference:* set new talks schedules
- [MT] *Unconference:* make Unconference page more appealing
- [LF] *Unconference:* PR to make registration and adding ideas more visible on unconference page

### Old actions
- ~~[MT] *Unconference:* open a new discussion topic on Github~~
- ~~[RD] *Unconference:* Invite Hande C. to talk at unconference~~
    - She's invited and we should consider that she will present.
- ~~[RB & MT] *Unconference:* plan and publish tweets (MT writes the first)~~
- ~~[LF] follow-up with Atte~~
- [LF] draft PR to make registration and adding ideas more visible on unconference page
    - Done?
### Agenda

- Intro/welcome
- Choose chair for next meeting
- Unconference coming up
    - Submit your ideas at https://github.com/nordic-rse/conference-contributions/issues
    - A separate meeting next week, fill in the Doodle at https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/bqYMo6Rb
- Action follow-up
- CodeRefinery kick-off

# 2022-09-08
:::info
Cancelled.
:::

# 2022-08-25

:::info
- Chairing: RB
- **Participants**: Radovan, Richard, Jarno, Matteo, Rus, Luca
:::


### Actions

- [MT] *Unconference:* open a new discussion topic on Github
- [MT] *Unconference:* Contact Sanna Isabel Ulfsparre for a talk about the relationship between data steward and RSE positions
  - speaker confirmed and we have an abstract 
- [RD] *Unconference:* Invite Hande C. to talk at unconference
- [RB & MT] *Unconference:* plan and publish tweets (MT writes the first)
- RD: my ideal thing for "PhD career skills track" is:
  - "Experiences as a PhD in industry" - talk + discussion (plenary talk, RD's speaker)
  - "PhD stochastic careers"
  - "how do PhD skills translate to industry" - talk (based on RD's notes+other ideas) + discussion
  - Roundtable discussion
- [?] *Unconference:* Who invites VS?
  - we focus on the speakers we already reached out to
- [LF] follow-up with Atte
- [LF] draft PR to make registration and adding ideas more visible on unconference page


### Old actions

- [RB] *Unconference:* Go through Unconference page and reduce text
- [RB] *Unconference:* add link for registration to Unconference pages
  - registration is open at https://indico.neic.no/e/nordic-rse-2022 but would be good if we test it before announcing




### Agenda

- Intro/welcome
- Choose chair for next meeting
- Clarify CodeRefienery mention on the web page
    - [Jarno] Replace the bullet point with CR logo, otherwise keep the same.  
- Unconference October 18-19
    - (MT) discussion via e-mail with Sanna Isabel Ulfsparre
- Action follow-up
- CodeRefinery kick-off


# 2022-08-11
:::info
* **Participants:** Matteo (Chair), Radovan, Luca
:::

### Actions

- [MT] *Unconference:* open a new discussion topic on Github
- [MT] *Unconference:* Contact Sanna Isabel Ulfsparre for a talk about the relationship between data steward and RSE positions
- [RD] *Unconference:* Invite Hande C. to talk at unconference
- [RD?] *Unconference:* Who invites Vanessa Sochat?
- [RB] *Unconference:* Go through Unconference page and reduce text
  - done 
- [RB] *Unconference:* add link for registration to Unconference pages
  - registration is open at https://indico.neic.no/e/nordic-rse-2022 but would be good if we test it before announcing
  - done
- [RB & MT] *Unconference:* plan and publish tweets (MT writes the first)

### Old actions

- ~~[LF] open poll to ask day of the week~~
- ~~[JR] ask Radovan about opening registration~~
- ~~[JR] Finish and send the member email~~

0. Intro for new people
1. Choose chair for next meeting
    - Radovan chairs next meeting on Aug 25, 14 CEST
2. actions follow-up
3. unconference planning
    - Tweets (after website is updated):
        - What is an unconference? Join us!
        - Generic tweet every 2 weeks
        - Tweet for each speaker (one month ahead), discussions, etc
    - Create Zoom room, HackMD
    - Send reminders to participants, speakers, organizers (1 week before)
4. NeIC RSE application, update
5. Swag
6. Anything else?


# 2022-06-22
:::info
* **Participants:** Richard, Luca, Jarno, Matteo (Chair)
:::


### Actions

- [LF] open poll to ask day of the week
- [JR] ask Radovan about opening registration
- [MT] open a new discussion topic on Github
- [JR] Finish and send the member email
- [MT] Contact NN for a talk about the relationship between data steward and RSE positions

0. Intro for new people
1. Choose chair for next meeting
    - in week 31 we will post a poll for the community to choose a date for meetings
    - in week 32 we have first meeting
    - Matteo chairs first meeting
2. actions follow-up
3. unconference planning
    - unconference was postponed, and we need a plan of action
    1. Open registration and advertize (Now)
    2. Invite invited speakers (Early August)
    3. Create Zoom room, HackMD
    4. Send reminders to participants, speakers, organizers (1 week before)
4. NeIC RSE application, update
    - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PjWaA2KLdwPaoQpqmPb5g0seZdczLQNuqRAXvhW1PZ8/edit
    - update about the application, objectives, planning
5. Anything else?
    - we need some swag! Stickers, t-shirts,...


# 2022-06-09
:::info
* **Participants:** Jarno, Luca, Matteo
:::

0. Intro for new people
1. Choose chair for next meeting
2. actions follow-up
3. summer event planning
    - should we postpone?
        - We have done most of the planning, but not invited any speakers.
4. NeIC RSE application
    - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PjWaA2KLdwPaoQpqmPb5g0seZdczLQNuqRAXvhW1PZ8/edit
    - Aalto and CR people started writign this last week in the NeIC workshop
    - No deadline yet, we have time to do lobbying and ask questions
    - Could also submit to other (national) funders
6. Anything else?
    - To get more people to the community meeting:
        - Send a tweet about it once every 2 months




# 2022-05-12
:::info
* **Participants:** Jarno, Radovan, Matteo, Richard
:::

0. Intro for new people
1. Choose chair for next meeting
2. actions follow-up
    - We have a Google organization now.
3. [RSEcon2022](https://rsecon2022.society-rse.org/), submission deadline ~~2.5~~ 9.5
    - Did we submit anything?
4. summer event planning
    - We need to hurry up...
    - Create a invited speaker suggestion form
    - Finnish and send the [email]()
    - [Suggestions for invited speakers](https://hackmd.io/claHS0cKScyJqqMDstgi1Q)
        - Do you know someone from digital humanities?
6. Anything else?


# 2022-04-28
:::info
* **Participants:** Luca, Richard, Thomas, Jarno
:::

### Actions

- [JR] chair next meeting
- [LF] ask in zulip for RSEcon22

### Old actions
- [JR] register the Nordic RSE google account for a workspace
    - requires access to the domain name, will check
- [LF] create google form to let people suggest invited speaskers for summer event


### Agenda

0. Intro for new people
1. Choose chair for next meeting
2. actions follow-up
    - Google Account should be available soon, promise was given to help or give access to the record.
3. [RSEcon2022](https://rsecon2022.society-rse.org/), submission deadline ~~2.5~~ 9.5
    - event on 6th -- 8th September in Newcastle 
    - submission idea (RB): lessons learnt from teaching RSE tools online
4. summer event planning
    - mainly online + possible in-place networking events
    - focus points
        - building a N-RSE community
        - career paths for technically oriented in academia
6. AOB

# 2022-04-14
:::info
* **Participants:** Jarno, Luca
:::

### Agenda
0. Intro for new people
1. Choose chair for next meeting
2. Follow up from previous meeting
    - Member email: https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/email. Please comment and add topics.
    - Suggestions for invited speaker or talk topics: https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/invited. Please also add these.
3. Verifying the nordic-rse.org domain for Google: who can edit the domain record?
4. Summer event planning
6. Other topics


# 2022-03-31
:::info
* **Participants:** Jarno, Luca, Frankie, Richard
:::

### Actions

 - [JR] chair next meeting 2022-04-14
 - [JR] open up email for comment (soon!) and send
 - [JR] try creatign a google account for Nordic RSE
 - [LF] make google form for topic speaker suggestions
 - [FR] post to Zulip a couple of times separated by about a week https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/invited

### Agenda
0. Intro for new people
1. Choose chair for next meeting
2. Actions follow up
    * [x] [JR] draft email to announce joining instructions at all
        * https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/email
3. seminar series: Richard talk 06.04.2022
    - advertisement: basic twitter, #announcement
4. Summer event planning
    - ask for ideas for invited speakers
        - on Zulip (link Ha)
        - on twitter (create a google form)
            - 2 fields, nominate a topic and possible speakers for the topic
    -  make hackmd for topic/speaker suggestions
       - https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/invited


# 2022-03-17
:::info
* **Participants:** Luca, Frankie, Richard, Jarno, Thomas
:::

### Actions

- [FR] chair next meeting (31.03.2022)
- [JR] draft email to announce joining instructions at al.

### Agenda
0. Intro for new people
1. Choose chair for next meeting
2. Actions follow up
    * [x] review and merge JRs PR about join instructions [all]
3. Discussion about possibility of chapters and associated groups
4. move current calendar to git calendar?
5. seminar series: Richard talk 06.04.2022
    - advertisement
6. Summer event planning
  - Time is beginning to get shorter!
  - Speaker diversity plan? ****
  
  - 
7. RSEcon 6th -- 8th September 2022
    - anyone has anything to submit?

### Notes

- joining instructions ready
- Discussion about possibility of chapters and associated groups
    - have chapters under nordic-rse
    - suggestion 1: have list of chapters in the form
    - suggestion 2: have list of chapters in website and add yourself by PR
    - suggestion 3: map connected to yaml file,
    - Current idea is to just pull out info from map into lists https://github.com/nordic-rse/nordic-rse.github.io/issues/367
- git calendar: if someone wants they can start working on it
- seminar series: richard will update the abstract and ask on zulip for help if needed
- summer event: 16th -- 17th August
    - invited speakers (if we have) should have gender balance
        - think early whom to invite
        - invite early
    - 
    - Focus of the event (pick one):
      - Advertising RSE (invite non-RSEs to give talks and show them who we are. Politicians, for example)
      - Community building (mainly internal to RSEs, invited speakers should be RSEs)
      - ???
      - RD: Building career paths for early-stage researchers.  E.g. PhD students who have no role models for non-tenure-track paths.  CV clinic.  Person who has gone through that path.  Recruiter from company.  Panel discussion


# 2022-03-03
:::info
* **Participants:**: Jarno, Luca, Richard, Thomas
:::

0. Intro for new people
1. Action points follow up
    * [x] finalize join instructs [JR]
    * [ ] review and merge JRs PR about join instructions [all]
    * [x] publication person finding [AF]
    * [x] ask Jeremy for clarification of DiveRSE [SW]
    * [x] Ask about server options [JR]
2. Choose a chair for the next meeting
3. Seminar series updates
    - first week of april Richard 
    - 27.04 JOSS seminar, exact title and abstract TBA
5. Updates on paper contribution request
    - On Zulip
    - 11.03 deadline for submitting the bullet points about nordic-rse
    - https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/B1ca7AsJ5
7. DiveRSE  
    - Next meeting
8. Anything else?
9. Summer event:
    - Invite the group in Turku and others in Finland that we know about
    - What are our target audiences?
      - PhDs and similar who don't know about non-academic career paths, and need to hear [need self-fulfillment]
      - Researchers who have been doing RSE jobs without knowing it (e.g. developers at universities, tech staff) [need self-fulfillment]
      - People who want to learn practical skills [overlaps with both of the above, need practical skills]


# 2022-02-17
:::info
* **Participants:** Luca Samantha Jarno Anne
:::

Actionpoints:
* ~~finalize join instructs~~ [JR]
* review and merge JRs PR about join instructions [all]
* NEIC pre-study: 
    * write proposal [AF]
    * who should be involved, methodology inputs [all]
* publication person finding [AF]
    * HackMD for bulletpoint collection
    * call for suggestions/nominations until Tue
    * then make vote with suggestions
* ask Jeremy for clarification of DiveRSE [SW]
* Ask about server options [JR]

---

0. Intro for new people
1. Action points follow up
    * highlight motivation on website [LF]
        * [JR] sent PR
    * write instructions for joining [JR]
        * as above, in progress
    * draft page for summer event [AF]
        * done and reviewed, merging in progress
2. Next chair 03.03.22: JR
3. NEIC pre-study follow up from last meeting
    * https://neic.no/news/2022/01/12/invitation-for-pre-studies-and-workshops/
    * AF is preparing something, super short 3 pages max 
    * **application submission DL: 01.03.22**
    * proposal coordinator needed
        * Aalto Scicomp?
    * role of collaboration partner unclear? support of idea? -> AF will find out
        * ask CSC [SW] for collaborator
    * https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iu2njsLU-ZVB5RLpmAxzHS9wGCC_0a3YvhjiCwBb6dc/edit?usp=sharing 
    * outcome: "why we need RSE" and benefits; business case
        * without officially talking about RSE  
5. paper contribution request
    * we need to nominate one representative from Nordic-RSE who would join a canonical reference paper about RSEs
    > Radovan Bast: quoting an email that went to the international RSE council in which Anne and I represent Nordic-RSE:
Simon Hettrick and I [Dan S. Katz] have been chatting about the need for a canonical reference paper about RSEs for a while, and we've recently starting writing one. We believe that this will be an F1000Research opinion piece officially, as the publishers seem willing.
We would like to invite one representative from each of the RSE organizations to join us as authors, and we hope that you will talk to your organization and see who is willing to do this, perhaps one of the International Council representatives.
Our initial request is for 5-10 bullet points (dot points for Australians) about your organization that cover some of
History of their organization (how it started, why they started it, etc.)
A summary of the research software landscape in their country if there is something specifically interesting about it. Possibly something about the amount of software being used, or funders.
Anything on the number of RSEs both in the organization and in the country/area
Summary of demographics (number of RSEs, RSE groups (if applicable), etc.)
Anything else that is specific to the country’s experience of RSE
Challenges and opportunities
We'll write some introductory text about the context, and then use these points to draft more of the paper, then get the authors together to see what think, what we need to change, and what else we need to add.
If a person could be identified in the next 2 weeks (by 25 Feb) and we could get the bullet/dot points 2 weeks after that (11 Mar), we would be happy.
Radovan Bast: tl;dr: we need to nominate one representative from Nordic-RSE who would join the paper

    * collect bulletpoints collaborative
    -> put them in HackMD
    * call for nominations who should that person be in Zulip with one sentence on why that person is nominated
    * then vote 
    

6. DiveRSE
    * more info coming soon
    > Radovan Bast: email from Jeremy Cohen to international RSE council:
Many of you will be aware of a variety of work that has been going on over recent months and years within the RSE community to raise awareness of EDI challenges and to provide insight and support in this space. The general aim of this work has been to ensure that as the RSE community grows rapidly, we understand challenges around EDI and we can ensure that we develop a community that is both open to everyone and that actively offers opportunities to everyone.
I believe some of you will also be participating in the upcoming Lorentz workshop "Vive la différence – research software engineers” being organised by Michelle Barker, Mozhgan Chimeh, Sean Goggins and Anna-Lena Lamprecht.
Alongside this workshop there is interest in trying to promote and make available some of the talks to a wider audience and I’ve agreed to try and assist Michelle by looking to organise “DiveRSE”. We hope this will be a series of public online sessions run around the time of the Lorentz workshop, and potentially continuing until later in the year, making key talks and topics from the workshop accessible to a wider audience. (Credit for coming up with the “DiveRSE" name goes to Michelle)
Initially we’d like to run a live public version of one of the Lorentz keynotes (probably sometime in mid March) and were hoping that one of the national RSE associations might be interested to support and act as host for this. Alternatively, maybe this is something that could be coordinated and run as an International Council session?
Going forward, we’d like to run a series of these sessions during late-March, April and into May, and potentially beyond, looking at some of the topics covered in the Lorentz workshop.
While I’m happy to lead the DiveRSE activity, additional help is likely to be required to make this workable. So, if any of you are interested in being part of a small organising committee and could commit a little time to helping to promote events, maintaining the website or potentially acting as a primary or backup host to help run these events, such assistance would be very helpful.
If you’d be interested to help run the keynote under your national association, or there is wider interest in doing this as an international association event, please do get in touch. Likewise, if you’d like assist with the organisation of DiveRSE, let me know. I look forward to hearing from you.
Executive summary: we are asked whether we can host an event (talk) and/or contribute to organization of diveRSE events

    * RSSS could be dedicated to DiveRSE?
    -> ask for clarification from Jeremy in public channel

7. RD idea: meeting of RSE groups that we know -> next time when RD is present
8. News from board 
   - Membership form and fee instructions coming up.  
10. News from seminar series
    - Arfon Smith, JOSS editor, will give a talk in March about JOSS and Software journals in general (exact date to be defined)
    - Richard Darst volunteered(?) to talk in April about how the Aalto group was started and tips to start RSE groups
        - looking for panelists [RD]
        - related to "success story" from N-RSE webpage
    - few people in last talk (timing problem? -> timezones)
    - more ideas for also more talks per month always welcome :)
11. Server for Nordic-rse, e.g. for storing data -> Zulip


**Actions**



# 2021-02-03
:::info
* **Participants:** Radovan, Luca, Jarno, Anne, Samantha
:::

**Actions**

**Agenda**

0. Intro for new people :sunflower:
1. Next chair for meeting in 2 weeks
2. Announcing the summer event and membership details

- [LF] highlight motivation on website, very briefly, why people should join and pay membership and what the benefits are and will be
  - benefits:
     - voting right
     - later possibly registration fee reduction during events
     - support a good cause (but describe what we plan to do with the money)
     - software clinic
     - application clinic
     - cv clinic
- [JR] Write instructions for joining
- [SW] chair next meeting
- [AF] Draft page for summer event


0. Intro for new people :sunflower:
1. News from the board?
   - discussions about whether membership should be paid or not and what member benefits are
   - since it has been decided to collect fees, the question remaining is not anymore whether but when
   - membership: one year after payment of fee plus a grace period until 2 weeks before the next annual meeting
   - reminders would be sent once per month to those with overdue payment
   - membership starts or restarts upon payment
2. Summer event
   - looks like week 34, Aug 15-21 is the preferred week based on poll on chat
   - online 16th - 17th August 2022
   - unconference-style, like in June 2021
3. Seminar series
   - next talk 16.02 by Logan Kilpatrick
   - [name=luca] drafted [email](https://hackmd.io/5JvEYRXkSH-6deGKO77PUw) to invite someone from JOSS as speaker. Will send it on 10.02.2022 next week (unless someone opposes it), comment and modify if you want.
4. Next chair for meeting in 2 weeks
   - Feb 17, 14:00 CET, 15:00 EET
   - SW will chair
5. Idea for a proposal for a NeIC pre-study
   - Deadline Mar 1
   - Outcome of the proposed pre-study would be a benefit realization plan to support RSE work


# 2021-01-20
:::info
* **Participants:** Jarno, Luca, Anne, Radovan, Richard
:::

**Agenda**

- [RB] Chair next meeting


**actions followup**
- [JR] Chair next meeting and poll for time
- [LF] ask about international RSE videos
    - they are on youtube now

0. Intro for new people :sunflower:
2. News from the board:
    - We now have an account at wise.com (kind of like a bank account)
    - Board will meet to set up the member registration process
    - 
    - IBAN for an € account. For other currencies recommend setting up an account (and probably for € as well).
4. Brainstorm about summer event
   - Half-days, 2 or 3
   - Early June or in August?
   - Unconference
       - Need to generate seed contributions
       - Poster-like gallery of software
           - "Poster" can be a GitHub repo, website, pdf, ...
           - A Zulip topic for each poster?
           - A quick intro in Zoom / stream / ???
       - 
6. seminar series news
    - next seminar 16. February 17:00 PM CET / 18:00 PM EET
    - drafted [email]
# 2021-12-16
:::info
* **Participants:** Luca, Richard, Jarno
:::

**actions**
- [JR] Chair next meeting and poll for time
- [LF] ask about international RSE videos


**actions followup**:
- [LF] check with Anne and/or Radovan when they can join for the International RSE debriefing
    - see points in agenda
- [LF] ask JUFO clarification about decision
    - it is JUFO 0 because "it publishes software" Richard put me in contact with the Aalto open science team and follow up actions are being taken.
- [JR] update the governance page

**Agenda**:

0. Intro for new people :sunflower:
1. International RSE day followup (if Anne or Radovan are around)
    - Anne has some videos to be put in youtube
    - https://github.com/annefou/zulip2TIL to collect TILS to youtube
    - write a blog about the event
3. RSE Survey update
4. Chatted about summer event
    * Should be online-first
    * possible local hub-events
        * Participate in the main meeting or just separate events?
    * Let's not waste time planning something big and having to cancel

# 2021-12-2

:::info
* **Participants:** Luca, Jarno, Richard, Samantha, Patric
:::

**actions**:

- [LF] chair next meeting
- [LF] check with Anne and/or Radovan when they can join for the International RSE debriefing
- [LF] ask JUFO clarification about decision
- [JR] update the governance page

**Agenda**:

0. Intro for new people :sunflower:
1. International RSE day followup (if Anne or Radovan are around)
2. RSE Survey update
3. Advent of code events
    - Time for the weekly chat
        - Tuesday at 14 CET to 15 CET
4. JUFO application unsuccessful :unamused:


# 2021-11-18
:::info
* **Participants:** Jarno Rantaharju, Richard Darst
:::

**actions**:

- [JR] chair next meeting

**action points followup**:

**Agenda**:

0. Intro for new people :sunflower:
1. International RSE day followup (if Anne or Radovan are around)
2. Advent of code events: What do we need to plan?
3. Advent of RSE: daily tweets with TIL, tools and so on.





# 2021-11-04
:::info
* **Participants:** Luca, Jarno, Enrico
:::

**actions**:
- [JR] chair next meeting

**action points followup**:

- [LF] issue about "get involved" in webpage
    - point to "Nordic-RSE-Organsiation" which has list of open issues -> is this a good idea?
    - link to issue template for Seminar series contribution :heavy_check_mark: 
    - link to coderefinery zulip :heavy_check_mark:
    - link to coffee break :heavy_check_mark:

**Agenda**:

0. Intro for new people :sunflower:
1. International RSE day followup
2. Issues in [Nordic-RSE-organisation](https://github.com/nordic-rse/NordicRSE-organization) repository: what can be closed, what is outdated and what should be added
3. December event? (There were lots of great ideas in Zulip, would be great to do 'something fun'?)
    - Advent of code related
    - Get together every Friday afternoon to talk about the challenges?



# 2021-10-21
:::info
* **Participants:** Luca, Jarno, Samantha, Richard
:::

**action points**:

- [LF] issue about "get involved" in webpage
    - point to "Nordic-RSE-Organsiation" which has list of open issues
    - link to issue template for Seminar series contribution
    - link to coderefinery zulip
    - link to coffee break
- [LF] Chairs the next seminar

**Agenda**:

0. Intro for new people :sunflower:
1. Registration submitted
    - association number 3242045-6, see https://tietopalvelu.ytj.fi/yritystiedot.aspx?yavain=3017541&tarkiste=41CDB0CBBECA8B9EE50638A003C7EE6B2E932A65
    - Not yet checked, so not really done
3. Action points followup
4. JUFO got our application, we'll hear an answer by 2 months
5. Time and chair for next meeting:
    - Luca will chair
    - Will first check if this time is good.
6. Event(s) for December?
   - Advent of code
   - Coding magic tricks / weird things we've done


# 2021-09-30
:::info
* **Participants:** Luca, Jarno, Thomas, Patric, Richard
:::


Last weeks action points to be followed up:
- [RB] ask Patrick to be the contact person for seminar series
  - RB will follow-up again next week but it seems PH is busy so if
    somebody else wants to organize the next event that could be an idea? 
- [RB] Collect standard channels for advertisement here
  - https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/announcement-channels 
- [RB] ~~Delete nordic-rse-organizers@neic.no~~
  - done 
- [RB] ~~Create issue for collecting work email addresses, then:~~
  - [All] And list your work email if you want
  - https://github.com/nordic-rse/nordic-rse.github.io/issues/321
- [SW] Ask Anne about contact person for International RSE day.
- [JR] ~~tweet about (SSI fellowship)[(https://www.software.ac.uk/news/ssi-fellowship-programme-2022)]~~
- [LF] ~~Chair next meeting~~

### Actions
- [LF] double check with Radovan whether he can lead the seminar series, if he cannot I'll do it.
- [LF] ~~open issue about navbar in webiste~~
    - [here](https://github.com/nordic-rse/nordic-rse.github.io/issues/324) it is 
- [LF] issue about "get invovled" in webpage
    - point to "Nordic-RSE-Organsiation" which has list of open issues
    - link to issue template for Seminar series contribution
    - link to coderefinery zulip
    - list ot coffee break
- [JR] Chair next meeting
- [PH] ~~Suggest seminar series topic: Preparing your code for open source/publication~~

### Agenda
0. Introduction for new people :sunflower:
1. How can we bring RSE groups together?
   - Can we run an open garage event?
   - Teaching
3. How can we reach organizations?
   - get Nordic-RSE activities in Universities' newsletters
4. Seminar series status
   - Patric doesn't have time, Luca will unless Radovan wants to do it. 
5. Website redesign status
7. [Nordic-RSE organisation issues](https://github.com/nordic-rse/NordicRSE-organization/issues)
8. Choose chair for next meeting






# Previous Agendas

<!-- Do not edit below this point -->


# 2021-09-16
:::info
* **Participants:** Jarno, Radovan, Luca, Samantha
:::


New action points:

- [RB] ask Patrick to be the contact person for seminar series
- [RB] Collect standard channels for advertisement here
- [RB] Delete nordic-rse-organizers@neic.no
- [RB] Create issue for collecting work email addresses, then:
  - [All] And list your work email if you want
- [SW] Ask Anne about contact person for International RSE day.
- [JR] tweet about (SSI fellowship)[(https://www.software.ac.uk/news/ssi-fellowship-programme-2022)]
- [LF] Chair next meeting


Last weeks action points to be followed up:
- ~~[JR] Send reminder about annual meeting~~
    - ~~And remind people to sign up~~
- [RB] ~~We remove contact@nordic-rse.org from website~~
- [SW, AF, RB, JR] Work on the SeptembRSE video and event
- [LF] website pull requests. [RB] review
- [AF] review unconference videos. (JR) will probably also watch them
- [AF] Organize a task force about RSE day.
     - RB happy to join planning work
     - LF Interested in helping organise + presenting if needed
     - SW too, but not super sure on how much time I will have during workdays starting Sep
- ~~[RB] Will edit the seminar video~~
- ~~September Seminar 14.9 at 13-14 CEST:~~
    - [RB] presents "Rust+Python: why and how"
    - [SW] help with advertising
    - [LF] chair and record, 
        - video recorded, will double check it's ok during the weekend (Luca)
- [SW] tweet about (SSI fellowship)[(https://www.software.ac.uk/news/ssi-fellowship-programme-2022)] help from NRSE after application opens 9.9 -> see agenda point 1


## Agenda:

0. Intro for new people :sunflower: 

1. Action points followup
2. What this meeting is for and how is it different from board meeting and coffee break?
    1. This meeting
        * Structure
            * Intro for new people
            * Reports from taskforces
            * actionpoints
    2. Board meeting
        * Do things defined in the statutes
    3. Coffee break
        * Should be a break
        * Talk about cats and dogs and stuff
    4. Task force meetings
        * each taskforce should have one 'representative' (knows whats going on, keeps the ball rolling)
        * current taskforces:
            * Seminar Series
            * Website
            * SeptembRSE
            * International RSE day
3. [SSI fellowship](https://www.software.ac.uk/news/ssi-fellowship-programme-2022) help from Nordic-RSE
    * What can we offer?
    * Should we encourage members to apply?
    * Should 'one of us' apply?
    * -> Taskforce (JR)
    * DL End of October
4. ~~Next seminar (october)~~ -> Taskforce meeting?
5. Website redesign status
6. SeptembRSE status
    - two sessions: 9:00-11:00 UTC (morning) and 13:00-15:00 UTC (afternoon)
    - who will be at panel? RB (both sessions), JR (one session)
    - video is done (?) thanks to AF!
    - who will send it to the organizers? RB will ask AF
7. How can we bring RSE groups together?
8. How can we reach organizations?


# 2021-08-20
:::info
* **Participants:** Jarno, Radovan, Anne, Samantha, Richard, Luca
:::

## Actionpoints

- [JR] Send reminder about annual meeting
    - And remind people to sign up
- [RB] Collect standard channels for advertisement here
- [RB] Delete nordic-rse-organizers@neic.no
- [RB] We remove contact@nordic-rse.org from website
- [RB] Create issue for collecting work email addresses, then:
  - [All] And list your work email if you want
- [JR] Add SeptembRSE to the calendar
- [SW, AF, RB, JR] Work on the SeptembRSE video and event
- [LF] website pull requests. [RB] review
- [AF] review unconference videos. (JR) will probably also watch them
- [AF] Organize a task force about RSE day.
     - RB happy to join planning work
     - LF Interested in helping organise + presenting if needed
     - SW too, but not super sure on how much time I will have during workdays starting Sep
- [RB] Will edit the seminar video
- September Seminar 14.9 at 13-14 CEST:
    - [RB] presents "Rust+Python: why and how"
    - [SW] help with advertising
    - [LF] chair and record
- [AF] Ask Mo for a seminar about R
- [SW] tweet about (SSI fellowship)[(https://www.software.ac.uk/news/ssi-fellowship-programme-2022)] help from NRSE 



Last weeks action points to be followed up:
 
- [JR] Nordic-RSE youtube channel created (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8OyVrmJEuT2lrH7zXoBrhQ))
- [RB] Unconference video located (NT shared a download link with us on private Zulip message July 1st)


## Agenda

0. Intro for new people :sunflower: 
1. Annual meeting coming up on September 2nd
   * See https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/annual_meeting/edit to help with preparations
   * Need to send reminder
3. Email mess resolution
    * what email addresses do we have public?
      - contact@nordic-rse.org
        * who gets those? RB (but for last 2 years nobody)
        * who reads those? RB (but for last 2 years nobody)
      - nordic-rse-organizers@neic.no
        * who gets those? RB needs to moderate, lots of spam. otherwise it forwards to AF, RD, JR, RB
        * who reads those? RB

    * conclusion:
      - we delete nordic-rse-organizers@neic.no and remove it from website
      - we remove contact@nordic-rse.org from website
      - we list our own email addresses (for those who want to)

4. SeptembRSE , see message [here](https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/213720-nordic-rse/topic/Invitation.20for.20Nordic-RSE.3A.20SeptembRSE.20Worldwide/near/249155044)
   - association being set up
   - meet-ups: the two (un)conferences
   - bi-weekly meetings
   - coffee breaks
   - seminar series
   - blog posts
   - Will attend: Jarno, Radovan
   - Work on the video: Samantha, Anne, (Radovan)
6. Unconference follow up
    - blogposts status
    - video status
      - videos located: see private zulip message to RD, AF, JR, NT, SW, PH from Jul 1, 2021
7. Website redesign status
   - Looks good. LF will make a pull request for layout.
   - Navbar pull request: some pages missing 
9. International RSE day planning status
   - Anne will organize a task force
   - Volunteers contact Anne
11. Seminar series status
    - September seminar: Radovan Rust and Python, Sep 14th, 13-14 CEST
    - October seminar: Anne will ask Mo (unconference talk moved here)



# 2021-08-05

:::info
* **Participants:** Jarno, Richard, Radovan, Anne, Luca, Samantha
:::


## Actionpoints
- [JR] Jarno will host next meeting
- [JR] Advertise Seminar Series
    - [SW] webpage
    - [SW] twitter
    - [ ] chat (CR zulip, carpentries slack)
    - [ ] email to 'known' RSEs
    - [ ] Nordic-RSE mail list
    - [ ] CSC,Sigma2,SNIC,...
    - [ ] Nordic RSE members (Jarno has the list, or after annual meeting, the secretary of the board)
- [LF] Write abstract about seminar series talk (for advertisement)
- [AF] draft standard seminar series advertisement
- [RB] Collect standard channels for advertisement in a private github repo
- [SW] blogging session invite
- [JR] create NRSE youtube account/channel (google group?)
- [RB] locate unconference videos
    - [?] review and upload unconference videos
- [AF] plan international RSE day planning meeting (https://github.com/nordic-rse/NordicRSE-organization/issues/8)

## Actionpoints from last time:
- [JR] send member email 
- [JR] add roadmap to website
- [all] be aware of issues on https://github.com/nordic-rse/NordicRSE-organization  and add if something is missing

## Agenda

0. Intro for new people :sunflower: 

1. JOSS / JUFO: application should be ready: https://hackmd.io/-k2Y9O-xQZK3Q9TLpVULww when can it be sent?
   - RD: looks great!
   
2. Research Software Seminar Series
    - to start in fall
    - task force meeting?
    - what are our suggestions to make it successful?
      - advertizable in normal university channels
      - clearly and carefully define target audience. suggestion: target RSEs 
    - related documents:
      - https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/ryEPSeZjO
  - **Luca at 18.08 14-17 EEST (13-16 CEST)**
  - Package development in Julia
    - follow-up steps
      - twitter
      - website
      - zoom, chairing
      - blog 
      - recording

3. Follow up on unconference
    1. Existing drafts
       - [What is R-S-E?](https://hackmd.io/jDxqhg13T8ebeWOnGohbeg#Blog-post)
        - Publishing software papers: https://hackmd.io/_T8eR9RASBmVMOuT0qEoPA
    - Blogging session: invite in chat
    - Recordings?
        - on youtube as first content
        
4. Website redesign
    - away from wall of text towards user-centered structure
    - see discussion in https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/213720-nordic-rse/topic/Nordic-RSE.20seminar.20series
        - only seminar page or full website?
    - taskforce? -> https://doodle.com/poll/s8gnhdzvni83yzut?utm_source=poll&utm_medium=link (DL: Monday 09.08)

5. Nordic-RSE youtube channel?
    * for posting unconference videos
    * later: seminar series etc
    * good to detach from CodeRefinery (avoids confusion)
    * RD notes: make a "brand channel" (their term for group channel) and then you can individually add other accounts who can access it with different permission levels, though the UI of this can be sort of hard to find.  Someone needs to SMS verify once to get right to upload >10 minute videos.

6. What to do with issues on https://github.com/nordic-rse/NordicRSE-organization
    - make it part of bi-weekly meeting -> assigning issues with deadline


# 2021-07-01
:::info
* **Date**: 2021-07-01 
* **Participants:** Luca, Jarno, Samantha, Anne
:::
## Action points

- [SW] Host for next meeting

This was special meeting to populate https://github.com/nordic-rse/NordicRSE-organization/issues with stuff that got left unresolved in previous meetings. 

## Actionpoints

* [SW] Nordic-RSE profile picture and generic twitter card (for non-event times) -> is now an issue and gonna happen soon :snail:
* [next meeting] Unconference post mortem

## Agenda

- Special meeting: go through action points in hackmd and track those which are still valid as issues on [the apposite github repository](https://github.com/nordic-rse/NordicRSE-organization/issues)
- Follow-up from unconference.
    - Follow-up meeting?
    - Dissemination.
        - Tweet summary
        - Tweets from individual sessions
    - Blogging sessions/writeups.
        - Invite to a meeting
        - Day 1: "Getting funding for research software" (Thomas P., ...)
        - Day 1: "Git evangelist" (Sunniva, ...)
        - Day 1: "What does the letters in RSE mean?" (Anne?, Jarno?, ...)
        - Day 2: "Julia for RSE" (?Kristoffer+...?)
        - Day 2: "Development frameworks for Research Software" (Shashank?)
        - Day 2: "Publishing software papers" ()
    - Uploading recordings.
    - Add relevant Universities/Institutes to the RSE map, to see who we could potentially reach.
    - Nordic-RSE timeline.



# 2021-06-10

:::info
* **Date:** Thursday (10.06) 14CEST
* **Participants**: Samantha, Jarno, Luca, Patric
:::


## Actionpoints

* [PH] ~~Nordic-RSE survey: ask people from all countries for list of universities~~
* [PH] ~~Nordic-RSE survey: find a better generic term for pre-diploma/pre-BSc educational level~~
* [] Hosting next meeting 

* [SW] Nordic-RSE profile picture and generic twitter card (for non-event times)


## Agenda

0. Intro for new people
1. Chair for the next meeting: Luca
1. Status of last meetings action points
    * NeiC services
    * twitter card/profile picture
2. News from unconference
    * 3/4 invited talks approved. All 3 have given title + abstract + consent to publish names.
    * dissemination in progress
        * anyone can help (reshare twitter post, forward email, etc)
3. JOSS to JUFO proposal writing
    * [draft](https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/rJWgLjsFd/edit)
    * progress update? 
        * A first draft is sketched in the above link, currently 1260 characters
    * help needed?
        * Feedback/comments always welcome :)
    * How many people send the form? Only one person or multiple people? I am wondering whether the latter would be perceived more like "spam" (negative) or like "more people supporting the cause" (positive).
    * When to send: **before midsummer**
4. RSE international survey
    * Back from hiatus. Currently in final rounds of testing/applying feedback from testers.
    * We need to come up possible answers to “What is the highest level of education you have achieved?”. I.e., create a list of education levels that the participant can choose from (example from UK-RSE: GSCE, A-Level, Undergraduate degree, Masters degree, PhD). Remember, it has to be general enough to encompass all the Nordics. Preliminary suggestion: add some generic degrees + a free-text field?
    * Pre-bachelor, Bachelor, Master, Doctorate 
    * Similarly, we need to provide possible answers to “Which university do you work for?”. Is it implausible to come up with a comprehensive list of universities for Nordics+Baltics? Will ask organizers if it is even possible to connect the survey (lime survey) to an external service for automatic lookup. THe alternative is a free-text field, which means messy data and lots of manual work. Any better suggestions?
        * Get list for each country + other field
            * Only universities? What about Colleges / polytechnical universities?
        * **Norway**: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_universities_in_Norway
        * **Denmark**: Pick only unis from wikipedia? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_universities_and_colleges_in_Denmark
        * **Sweden**: Not wikipedia! Best so far: https://english.uka.se/facts-about-higher-education-in-sweden/universities-university-colleges-and-other-education-providers/higher-education-institutions-heis.html
        * **Finland**: ? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_universities_in_Finland
        * **Iceland**: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_universities_in_Iceland
        * **Lithuania**: ?Universities: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_universities_and_colleges_in_Lithuania
        * **Latvia**: ?State universities: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_universities_and_colleges_in_Latvia
        * **Estonia**: ?Public Universities: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_universities_in_Estonia
5. How to make sure old agenda points/discussions without 'end' from earlier do not get missing? 
    * most of them are related to future of Nordic-RSE
    * also stuff from NordicRSE meetup
    * dedicated meeting to create actionpoints from them?
    * discussed: reporsitory with issues with labels
    * -> dedicated meeting to fill issues
6. Nordic-RSE autumn seminar series (initiated by PH)
> [See original post/idea in Zulip: #nordic-rse](https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/213720-nordic-rse/topic/Nordic-RSE.20seminar.20series/near/240719091) **Motivation:** create a frequent activity to bring Nordic-RSE to life. A seminar series can be quite easily organized, and is timely now that SORSE has finished. Does not have to overlap with Aalto activities. **Idea:** The way I envision it right now, is that each event is centered around either a focus topic or a general concept. We can set aside anything from 30 min (one talk+discussion) to maybe max 3h (mini-symposium). We can try to fill a program for autumn with various topics, based on what we feel will generate an interest (but possibly leave some slots open for the community to suggest). We can then either invite or announce that we are looking for speakers. I think coming up with topics is the easiest part: there are so many things one wants to know more and discuss about. For example, at every get-together, there have been certain topics that generate intense discussion (look at 2020 online get-together HackMD for inspiration). Maybe we could put together something very tentative, to point to during the unconference, as "the next thing" to look forward to in Nordic-RSE.
**All of these ideas are up for discussion, and can be changed for the better.** 
* starting with internal people
* starting with every 2 weeks/ monthly
* -> task force


xx. Member email (here to keep in mind to draft one after the unconference)
    * [draft](https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/rJt9Z8Y_d/edit)

# 2021-05-27

:::info
* **Date:** May 27th, 2021, 14PM (CET)
* **Participants**: Luca, Diana, Jarno, Samantha, Patric, Richard
:::

Action points until next meeting:
 - RB: Check if we can use NeIC services (mailing list, indico) after coderefinery2 is done?
 - SW: Chair next meeting and find recurring time
 - SW: (at some point) create nRSE profile picture and between events twitter card

0. Intro for new people

1. Status of last weeks Action points
    * We have a calendar
    * think about ways to send calendar invites (doesn't seem straightforward/convenient enough in google cal)
    * 

2. There was an [unconference](https://nordic-rse.org/events/2021-online-unconference/) meeting
     - Date: June 29-30
     - Anything we need to know?
         - invited talks/sessions meeting next week: doodle here: https://doodle.com/poll/berwkwr3qf6rzb5h
             - come up with ideas before meeting 
         - next planning meeting with role distribution week 23, doodle here: https://doodle.com/poll/sxce5gucpcdg6nwa?utm_source=poll&utm_medium=link

3. Propose changing [JOSS](https://joss.theoj.org/) from [JUFO 0 to JUFO 1](https://julkaisufoorumi.fi/en/publication-forum)
    - Draft: https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/rJWgLjsFd/edit
    - about jufo 0: https://julkaisufoorumi.fi/en/faq-0#Q5
    - Grounds must be given in 1500 characters
    - Review every 4 years, coming in 2022
         - From the JUFO form webpage: _In the constantly ongoing complementary evaluations, the panels may award level 1 to publication channels previously classified as level 0. The evaluation process takes about 2-5 months._

4. International RSE day
   - Time set? 14.10? unsure if fixed

5. Meeting format and time
   - who will chair: SW
   - meeting invites
   - Poll for recurring biweekly meeting (summer)

6. Who can add poeple to github organization
    * When should new people be added?
        * when interested :)

7. After the Unconference: Member email [draft](https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/rJt9Z8Y_d/edit)
   * What should be included?
     * Upcoming: RSE survey
     * Past activities: 
         * Unconference
         * JOSS JUFO rating
         * Podcast from Peter
     * Date for the first general meeting
     
8. Design ideas for a 'between events' twitter card?
    * twitter card for when no event is advertised
    * twitter card: the image that is shown when link to webpage is in tweet text





# 2021-05-12

:::info
* **Date:** May 12th, 2021, 16AM (CET)
* **Participants**: Radovan, Richard, Jarno, Samantha, Patric
:::

Action points until next week:
- PH: Finally create [Google non-profit organization](https://www.google.com/nonprofits/), to e.g. be able to organize a calendar. [registration form](https://www.google.com/nonprofits/account/signup/us)
  - To register the Google organization, we first need to register Nordic-RSE, for which we need the statutes.
  - For now, use this google calendar: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=OGxpNmhqY2ptOTVnNzZwZ3RlMXA1cGkwNWNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
      - Ask any of Patric, Radovan, Samantha, Richard for access
 - JR: Find a time for next meeting and chair
 - JR: Solicit advise on Zulip for the member email
 - JR: Make unconference registration available after asking for opinions on Zulip


1. Status of last weeks Action points:
- RB: find out how we can forward of the contact@nordic-rse.org

2. Unconference
    - https://nordic-rse.org/events/2021-online-unconference/ 
    - Is nordic-rse-organizers@neic.no still active and usable for e.g. the unconference?
      - it can be used. who should it forward to? 
          - Jarno, Radovan, Samantha
          - contact at will forward to this one
          - later we will have the organziational one and then we can forward to that
    - See unconference info [here](https://github.com/nordic-rse/nordic-rse.github.io/pull/216/files#diff-fadbf4be0c256c87531b095ed18b604389c84e0ecadd810f94752ebfcc2dd786R41).
    - [Suggestions for invited speakers](https://hackmd.io/NUvR5PdxQE6q9RX3L_O2iw#Suggestions-for-%E2%80%9Ckeynote%E2%80%9D-speakers)
    - who will decide at the beginning of a day?
      - self-organize?
      - or coordinated?
      - somebody needs to be there to encourage
    - who manages the hackmd/document?
    - follow-up: schedule separate meeting

3. Can we continue using NeIC services (mailing list, indico) after coderefinery2 is done?
    - Radovan will check, but skeptical

4. Date for the first general meeting
   * Needed to approve the statutes
   * Select a board
   * What if we set a date in September that could be announced at unconference?

5. Member email [draft](https://hackmd.io/@nordic-rse/rJt9Z8Y_d/edit)
   * What should be included?
     * Upcoming: unconference, RSE survey
     * Past activities: 
     * Date for the first general meeting

6. International RSE day
  - suggestion (from Int RSE council): 2nd Thursday in October (14 Oct 2021) 
  - this is not fixed yet, but any event colliding with this?
     - no collision known at this stage

7. Meeting format and time
  - who will chair
  - meeting invites
    - Samantha finds time for unconference meetings
    - Jarno finds time and chairs next bi-weekly meeting


# 2021-04-28

:::info
* **Date:** April 28th, 2021, 16AM (CET)
* **Participants**: Patric, Radovan, Richard
:::

Action points until next week:
- RB: Find out who administrates the Nordic-RSE email list/member list.
- RB: group 2-3 people who will draft a super short announcement text and website text for the unconference (their goal will be to come up with a pull request)
- RB: find out how we can forward of the contact@nordic-rse.org
- PH: Create "Google non-profit organization" to have collect resources and create a calendar. Read up on CryptPad as an alternative.

1. Status of last weeks Action points:
- RB: check with Radek whether something is in place
  - yes, we got hold of nordic-rse google group and shared ownership now among RL, RB, and PH (see also next point) 
- RB: get overview of all the various accounts (agenda points 6 and 7)
  - created https://github.com/nordic-rse/accounts-overview#readme (private repo) 
- RB: group 2-3 people who will draft a super short announcement text and website text for the unconference (their goal will be to come up with a pull request)
  - so far nothing written but at least the process is started, if nobody joins, I will draft something before the week is over to have a starting point 

2. Chair for the next meeting (May 12): Radovan
    * If a collision happens, the chair can locate another chair.

3. About agendas and TODO tasks (how to improve)
    * How can we keep track of tasks (which often require 1-2 persons to do something and they may not be in the meeting) without ending up with a growing list of agenda points which will at some point not fit into 30 minutes? 
        * Lots of good suggestions from Samantha and others in [previous meeting agendas](https://hackmd.io/3QnRFT-5TOOXjzHtATJ_iA?view#2021-03-31).
        * Will a "timeout zone" (yellow box below) help reducing agenda bloat? What about just removing points as a natural selection?
        * Make agenda points into GitHub issues?

4. Roadmap for Nordic RSE
    * What should Nordic-RSE do for it's members?
        * More events. Few know that we exist - there is little activity.
        * Seminar series. Overlap with other groups/organizations (Aalto, SORSE).
        * Base on RSHour: "rebrand", and do it ourselves.
        * Can also suggest topics and invite speakers.
    * Collaboration between Nordic-RSE, Nordic HPC and CodeRefinery? Top down rather than bottom up approach. What is the motvation for people to get involved and contribute to this organization?
    * A thought: Should we institute formal roles/position in Nordic RSE? (e.g. Chair, treasurer, secretary, ... or whatever makes sense for Nordic-RSE)

5. Collective calendar on website (Google calendar with subscription option)
    * It turns out the google group created by Radek is not a proper "Google organization", which means we cannot create or administrate a calendar. To do this, we need to create a [Google nonprofit organization](https://www.google.com/nonprofits/) via "Google My Business".
        * Do we want to do this, or is it enough with a privately created calendar which is then made public, and RSE members can be inveited to be administrators of?
        * Pros of such an account are that we can gather other resource (google drive, mailing list, ...), cons are that we might not want to "tie" Nordic-RSE to google.
    * Create "Google nonprofit organization" for now, until better option appears.
        * An option would be CryptPad: https://blog.cryptpad.fr/2021/04/26/status-april-2021/

6. Collect all nRSE 'things' (website, twitter, repository,...)
    - collected at https://github.com/nordic-rse/accounts-overview#readme
        - Add list of members: Who owns/administrates this maling list?

7. Cleaning up mailing list
   - we have a number of mailing lists, see also https://github.com/nordic-rse/accounts-overview#readme
   - how do we want to reach members and how do we want to be reached? can we remove all other outdated mailing lists?

8. Unconference in June
   - RB looking for 1-2 persons to join a 1-2 hour video+hackmd drafting session which will result in a PR towards the website

:::warning
**Agenda points "on hold"**

These points are put here e.g. because there has been no relevant update in a long while. This is to reduce agenda bloat. Please feel free to move content to the main agenda!

* Richard has asked an expert about the statutes
* Funding sources?
* RSE survey: Dissemination in April
* No international RSE conference this year
:::


# 2021-04-14

:::info
* **Date:** April 14th, 2021, 16AM (CET)
* **Participants**: Patric, Radovan (first 15 mins), Richard
:::

Action points until next week:
- RB: check with Radek whether something is in place
  - yes, it is, Radovan got access to nordic-rse google group; see also point below 
- RB: get overview of all the various accounts (agenda points 6 and 7)
  - still in progress
  - suggestion: we create private github repo where we collect overview of accounts and who has access. of course no passwords 
- RB: group 2-3 people who will draft a super short announcement text and website text for the unconference (their goal will be to come up with a pull request)
  - sorry this was on me and has stalled, I will pick that up
      - PH can help if necessary.

1. Status of last weeks Action points (TODO tasks):
- PH: another attempt on creating google group/ administrative account
    - The best approach is to use the existing group account.
- RD: follow-up on agenda point 8
    - Still waiting for a reply.

2. Chair for the next meeting (Apr 28): Patric
    * If a collision happens, the chair can locate another chair.

3. About agendas and TODO tasks (how to improve)
    * How can we keep track of tasks (which often require 1-2 persons to do something and they may not be in the meeting) without ending up with a growing list of agenda points which will at some point not fit into 30 minutes? 
        * [name=Samantha] Suggestion: clearer agenda preparation; meeting minutes and notes separate from Agenda with limit on points (maybe 5? for 30 min) that need to be discussed in this specific meeting. Then rather add future agendas already to the document (eg RSE survey was not needed in last few agendas but should be in next one?). And then when someone 'promises' to do something, have one section which action points (could be all the way on top ever updating with a done section in the very bottom of this document?)
        * [name=Patric] Creating the agenda for a new meeting, it is sometimes hard to know what in the previous agenda was completed and what was just a suggestion. Since tasks are spread between different members (who doesn't always attend), it is also hard to know what is still relevant. A suggestion is to drop agenda points that we are unsure about - the risk is that we lose track of work in progress. But at the same time, someone will raise the question if it is important enough. This also serves to reduce the agenda length.
       * What can be GitHub issue we track there but we will have a list of action points and meta-issues in this document. It can be in a separate document but linked and part of process.
       * We are few people and have many items. Let us focus on fewer items (such as unconference and survey) and "postpone" some of this to later
       * We should also communicate better "upwards" (RSE council, summarize here results from the council) and "downwards" to the community
       * Can we motivate few people to write short blog posts and announcing them every 2-3 weeks?

4. Roadmap for Nordic RSE
    * Unsure what the status or follow-up action is
    * Basically communicate our action points and goal
    * What should Nordic-RSE offer to it's members and as an organization? Do we want to be more visible and active?

5. Collective calendar on website (Google calendar with subscription option)
    * Nordic RSE has a Google group/organization. Radovan has the account info.
    * Patric and Radovan will try to set up a shared calendar.
    * After this is set up send email to all members.
    * https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/213720-nordic-rse/topic/Calendar.20for.20Nordic-RSE
    * https://github.com/nordic-rse/nordic-rse.github.io/issues/215

6. Collect all nRSE 'things' (website, twitter, repository,...)
    * Idea: use private github repo to start collecting this data.
    * Example of things to collect:
       * Membership list (Jarno, Richard)
       * twitter
       * domain name (Radek, ??)
       * hackmd group
       * github organization
       * google drive

7. Cleaning up mailing list
   * Radovan is getting more and more spam on the conference mailing lists (pc, organizers, announcements)
   * What other mailing lists do we have?
   * Can we consolidate it a bit? 

8. Richard has asked an expert about the statutes
   * Radovan checked with NeIC and it seems we cannot use CodeRefinery budget to cover organization registration
   * RD: Email sent, no response.  Maybe it is best to move on and not wait for this, if there is no concrete question to ask?

9. Funding sources?

10. Unconference in June
    * according to poll:
        * early afternoon preferred time of day **13-16 CET** (5 votes vs 3,3,2 votes for other times)
        * late june preferred over early june with most votes (4) for **22/23.6** and second most (3) for 15/16.6 or 29/30.6. Please note that "after 22/23" is right after midsummer, which might not lead to a large attendance.
        * **decided time**:
        * advertising:
            * twitter:
            * webpage:
            * ...
     * we think this and other events are core, we should prioritize this, not make it too formal
     * perhaps a group of 2-3 people can draft a 1-pager for how this could event could look and bring it back to this group
     * the group actually organizing this does not have to be the same group (to lower the barrier to contribute ideas without committing for a lot of work)
     * also let's try to "code-share" events that we need to do anyway (e.g. RSH) and cross-announce them
     * events are key to grow visibility/community
     * unconference could be first newsletter
     * Ideas:
         * Two ways of accepting ideas before the unconference:
             * Github issues
             * A public shared document (editable by everyone, no security :))
         * Decide 2 times for a planning meeting before sending the announcement. In the announcement invite everyone to join those meetings.
             * "Join the Unconference planning meetings on ... and ...!"

11. Disseminating RSE survey in April
    * STATUS: It is mid april, but still no update from Simon Hettrick (survey organizer)
    * Ideas for dissemination:
      - Twitter
      - Sigma2/metacenter slack
      - CR chat
      - Carpentries instructors (use general mailing list in the topicbox)
      - Carpentries slack
      - RSE slack, Nordic channel
      - Our members
        - Group email
    * idea: announce unconference at the same time (and mention survey when we announce unconference)

12. No international RSE conference this year
    * event in fall 

# 2021-03-31

:::info
* **Date:** March 31th, 2021, 16AM (CET)
* **Participants**: Patric, Richard, Jarno, Radovan
:::

Action points:
- RB: check with Radek whether something is in place
- PH: another attempt on creating google group/ administrative account
- RB: get overview of all the various accounts (agenda points 5 and 6)
- RD: follow-up on agenda point 7
- RB: group 2-3 people who will draft a super short announcement text and website text for the unconference (their goal will be to come up with a pull request)

1. About agendas and TODO tasks
    * How can we keep track of tasks (which often require 1-2 persons to do something and they may not be in the meeting) without ending up with a growing list of agenda points which will at some point not fit into 30 minutes? 
        * [name=Samantha] Suggestion: clearer agenda preparation; meeting minutes and notes separate from Agenda with limit on points (maybe 5? for 30 min) that need to be discussed in this specific meeting. Then rather add future agendas already to the document (eg RSE survey was not needed in last few agendas but should be in next one?). And then when someone 'promises' to do something, have one section which action points (could be all the way on top ever updating with a done section in the very bottom of this document?)
       * What can be GitHub issue we track there but we will have a list of action points and meta-issues in this document. It can be in a separate document but linked and part of process.
       * We are few people and have many items. Let us focus on fewer items (such as unconference and survey) and "postpone" some of this to later
       * We should also communicate better "upwards" (RSE council, summarize here results from the council) and "downwards" to the community
       * Can we motivate few people to write short blog posts and announcing them every 2-3 weeks?

2. Chair for the next meeting: Patric
    * If a collision happens, the chair can locate another chair 
3. Roadmap for Nordic RSE
    * Unsure what the status or follow-up action is
    * Basically communicate our action points and goal
4. Collective calendar on website (Google calendar with subscription option)
    * After this is set up send email to all members
    * Jarno will look into it, but anyone else can do/join
    * https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/213720-nordic-rse/topic/Calendar.20for.20Nordic-RSE
5. Collect all nRSE 'things' (website, twitter, repository,...) 
   * Membership list (Jarno, Richard)
   * twitter
   * domain name (Radek, ??)
   * hackmd group
   * github organization
   * google drive
6. Cleaning up mailing list
   * Radovan is getting more and more spam on the conference mailing lists (pc, organizers, announcements)
   * What other mailing lists do we have?
   * Can we consolidate it a bit? 
7. Richard has asked an expert about the statutes
   * Radovan checked with NeIC and it seems we cannot use CodeRefinery budget to cover organization registration
8. Funding sources?
9. Unconference in June
    * according to poll:
        * early afternoon preferred time of day **13-16 CET** (5 votes vs 3,3,2 votes for other times)
        * late june preferred over early june with most votes (4) for **22/23.6** and second most (3) for 15/16.6 or 29/30.6
        * **decided time**:
        * advertising:
            * twitter:
            * webpage:
            * ...
     * we think this and other events are core, we should prioritize this, not make it too formal
     * perhaps a group of 2-3 people can draft a 1-pager for how this could event could look and bring it back to this group
     * the group actually organizing this does not have to be the same group (to lower the barrier to contribute ideas without committing for a lot of work)
     * also let's try to "code-share" events that we need to do anyway (e.g. RSH) and cross-announce them
     * events are key to grow visibility/community
     * unconference could be first newsletter
     * Ideas:
         * Two ways of accepting ideas before the unconference:
             * Github issues
             * A public shared document (editable by everyone, no security :))
         * Decide 2 times for a planning meeting before sending the announcement. In the announcement invite everyone to join those meetings.
             * "Join the Unconference planning meetings on ... and ...!"
10. Disseminating RSE survey in April
      - Twitter
      - Sigma2/metacenter slack
      - CR chat
      - Carpentries instructors (use general mailing list in the topicbox)
      - Carpentries slack
      - RSE slack, Nordic channel
      - Our members
        - Group email
    * first check done
    * overall delayed
    * idea: announce unconference at the same time (and mention survey when we announce unconference)
11. No international RSE conference this year
    * event in fall 



# 2021-03-17

:::info
* **Date:** March 17th, 2021, 16AM (CET)
* **Participants**: Jarno, Patric, Samantha, Radovan
:::


1. Chair for the next meeting: Radovan
2. Lightning talk on Nordic-RSE for the Communities workshop (https://sorse.github.io/programme/workshops/event-031/).
   * On the 17th https://researchsoft.github.io/community-ws/
   * share on twitter that NordicRSE has been there
   * notes available from Jarno and Anne https://hackmd.io/PTKmgWKiS-SXkbnOCaTSPg
3. Roadmap for Nordic RSE
    * timeline of what NordicRSE intends to achieve and what we do and why people would want to joing the community
    * website work has started (frontpage)
    * building local chapters (offering support on website? list chapters, announce meetings)
    * registering as association in summer
        * Radovan in progress of checking whether this can be covered with CR budget. it looks like it but still more discussions needed. I will keep you updated.
        * collection of membership fee? (as association; for payment for domain)
5. Inform members about new meeting time
    * Collective calendar on website (Google calendar with subscription option)
    * After this is set up send email to all members
    * Jarno will look into it, but anyone else can do/join
    * maintenance? -> collective
6. Collect all nRSE 'things' (website, twitter, repository,...) 
   * Membership list (Jarno, Richard)
   * twitter
   * domain name (Radek, ??)
   * hackmd group
   * github organization
   * google drive
8. Richard has asked an expert about the statutes
9. Changes on the website
    * some changes happened 
    * making it clearer what is a RSE, what does nRSE do (done)
    * done: https://github.com/nordic-rse/nordic-rse.github.io/pull/213
11. Funding sources?
12. Possible unconference in June
    * meetup with flexible topics (lightweight)
    * dates -> poll in Zulip (Samantha)
    * two halfdays (tue+wed, morning/afternoon)
14. Disseminating RSE survey in April
      - Twitter
      - Sigma2/metacenter slack
      - CR chat
      - Carpentries instructors (use general mailing list in the topicbox)
      - Carpentries slack
      - RSE slack, Nordic channel
      - Our members
        - Group email
    * first check done
    * overall delayed
15. No international RSE conference this year
    * event in fall 
    * difficulty: timezones


# 2021-03-01

:::info
* **Date:** March 1st, 2021, 10AM (CET)
* **Participants**: Jarno, Richard, Anne, Naoe, Samantha, Radovan
:::

1. Chair for the next meeting:
    * Samantha
    * Jarno will move the meeting
3. Need a volunteer to organize this meeting for the next two months.
    * Send a reminder on Zulip
    * Take notes at the meeting
    * Be present most times
    * Rotate the chair
    * Move the meeting to a better time? [Jarno]
4. Disseminating RSE survey in April
      - Twitter
      - Sigma2/metacenter slack
      - CR chat
      - Carpentries instructors (use general mailing list in the topicbox)
      - Carpentries slack
      - RSE slack, Nordic channel
      - Our members
        - Group email
5. Lightning talk on Nordic-RSE for the Communities workshop (https://sorse.github.io/programme/workshops/event-031/).
   * On the 17th https://researchsoft.github.io/community-ws/
   * Anne will attend
   * "Developing an international RSE community"
       * 'RSE' in different places in different countries
       * Separate national institutions
       * Practical challenges: which country to register in?
7. The website has changed in key places
   * [Anne] Change the first paragraph to a description of the association and the timeline
   * Create the roadmap with some basic content to start with
   * Suggestion: Add a calendar with all our events (coffee breaks, biweekly meetings)
9. Roadmap for Nordic RSE
   * What can we do? What do RSEs need?
   * Registering the association (this summer)
       * This is necessary for the workshop
10. Funding sources?
11. Possible unconference in June



# 2021-02-15

:::info
* **Date:** Feb 15, 2021, 10AM (CET)
* **Participants**: Jarno Rantaharju, Anne Fouilloux, Patric Holmvall, Richard Darst, Radovan (watching hackmd, in parallel meeting)
:::

1. Disseminating RSE survey?
  - Survey will be run in April (open beginning of April and close end of April)
  - We should start planning dissemination channels
      - Twitter
      - Sigma2/metacenter slack
      - CR chat
      - Carpentries instructors (but using the public pages, we cannot use the internal Carpentries mailing list)
      - Carpentries slack
      - RSE slack, Nordic channel
      - Our members
        - Group email
  - Patric and Radovan are now checking the survey form and will need 2 more people who can help checking consistency of the survey (whether the survey has the right logic, not anymore checking the questions themselves).
2. Update the website (Anne)
   * Move conference
   * Biweekly meeting to front page
4. Lightning talk on Nordic-RSE for the Communities workshop (https://sorse.github.io/programme/workshops/event-031/).
  *  17th and 18th March 09:00 – 11:00 UTC
  *  What can we learn from this workshop, about developing Nordic-RSE?
5. Possible uncoference meetup
   * Survey coming after May, maybe meetup in June?
7. What to do with contact@nordic-rse.org?
8. Think about an agenda: Open roadmap?
  * What do you need to learn in 2021? What do you want to learn?
  * What can we do on a Nordic scale?
    * Not a local RSE group, but at larger scale.
    * Enable career development:
      * Add a job board on the website
    * Lobby and guide funding organizations and infrastructure projects.
    * Bring together expertise from a larger network:
      * Hackathons, discussion channels
    * Spread name recognition:
      * Conference and workshops
9. We need to find funding
  * For lobbying at higher level organizations, spreading information 
11. Things we should do from the online meetup: (No need to cover all of this today.)
   * Knowledge sharing and building a community.
     * One way to achieve this is to have meetings, courses and other events.
   * Start building local communities when possible (after COVID, when enough people)
     * Should we / How can we support this?
   * Lobbying:
     * Follow research funding organizations and participate actively when they ask for feedback
     * [name=Jarno]: We have 29 members, which is not a lot of weight to throw around... We can still offer a specialist view point.
   * Job board on the website.
     * Can be done quickly. Maybe bootstrap from the jobs postings stream on the CR chat.
   * List of useful courses and materials on the website.
     * Including at least CR, SWC and hands of scicomp.
     * List of courses with dates.
     * Link to the list of journals that publish sofware?
   * Hackathons with domain experts.
     * Really good for community building and disseminating knowledge.

"A research software engineer is someone involved in research, but more focused on the computational skills than publications."

"A research software engineer is someone with expertise in both research and in software development. They are the members of a research group that knows best practices in software development or consults that support multiple research groups."


# 2021-02-01

:::info
* **Date:** Feb 01, 2021, 10AM (CET)
* **Participants**: Anne Fouilloux, Marijn van Vliet, Patric Holmvall, Jarno Rantaharju
:::

## Agenda
0. CSC (redirected from coffeebreak 21.1.21)
1. How to disseminate RSE survey? 
    - There will be an international meeting about the survey next week
    - Members list: ask members to advertise
    - Ask DeIC and local organizations to advertise
    - Unions
3. Updates about conference?
    - Postponed to December
    - No news about Nordic RSE online meetup in May
    - International RSE online conference maybe coming
5. What to do with contact@nordic-rse.org?
6. Things we should do from the online meetup.
    - Jarno will read through the material and come up with more detailed suggestions for next meeting

## Other topics that may arise

## Minutes

### CSC

### RSE survey

How to disseminate RSE survey?
- Survey will be sent out March/April

### Conference

### contact@nordic-rse.org

### online-meetup afterwork

Things we should do from the online meetup.
- we have notes, presentations, group photo
- blogpost?




<!-- Copy any items for next meeting above this line -->

---

<!-- Agendas of previous meetings. Do not edit below this line. -->

# 2021-01-18

:::info
- **Date:** Jan 18, 2021 10 AM(CET)
- **Participants:**
    - Radovan Bast, CodeRefinery
    - Richard Darst, CodeRefinery&Aalto
    - Anne Fouilloux, CodeRefinery
    - Patric Holmwall, UU
    - Haagen Waade, Kavli Institute/NTNU
    - Naoe Tatara, University of Oslo Library of Medicine and Science, CodeRefinery
    - Malin Sandström, INCF (malin@incf.org)
    - Samantha Wittke, FGI/Aalto
    - Jarno Rantaharju, Aalto
:::


- Choose a chair: Jarno
- Keep the meeting on topic and at 30 minutes

## Nordic RSE
- Invited new members to join. Introductions if necessary.
- RSE survey: any updates?
    - Survey questions: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eyuzP7zuQeyXHzO6alhK1Pz8Yohbl_bL78GjIAEGcks/
    - Try to add question about funding landscape (in free form)
    - Survey will be sent out March/April (do I remember this right?)
- 29 members registered

## Conference
- What do we think about our changes for May?
  - We recommend to the organization committee to not have this in-person conference in May 2021 due to pandemic and travel restrictions.
  - Anne will inform the organizing committee and Thor about this.
    - One problem (probably nothing we can do about it): we will probably lose the budget if we cannot use it in 2021

## Other topics that may arise
- For meeting minutes: do we aim for one document per meeting? or one document that is updated in place?
- we move to https://hackmd.io/team/nordic-rse
    - people have to be in team (ask from jarno/samantha to be added)
    - we can connect it to github and share non editable version via website
    - editable only for members

---

# 2020-12-09

## Nordic RSE
 - No meeting on the 23rd?
   - Add this to the website (Jarno)
   - Find a meeting time for bi-weekly meetings in 2021. Jarno will create a Doodle poll.
   - Starting on week 2
 - RSE survey: any updates?
 - What to do with contact@nordic-rse.org? 
 - Online meetup went well. Many things to address in coming meetings.
   - 105 registrations
   - Unique participants on Zoom:
     - Monday, 81 (greater than 1 hour: 66, greater than 30 minutes: 77)
     - Tuesday, 78 (greater than 2 hours: 45)
     - Wednesday, 73 (greater than 2 hours: 48)
 - 26 members registered

## Other topics that may arise
 - Set up a post online meetup meeting (Jarno)
 - Themes that need to be discussed in a new near:
   - OC/PC for the conference in May

---

# 2020-11-11

## Nordic RSE
 - RSE survey: No updates (See Patric’s post on chat)
 - What to do with contact@nordic-rse.org? 
 - People are busy with CodeRefinery, maybe we cannot address this.
 - Can we start accepting members next week?
 - Should we just accept the most basic necessary info, or try to decide everything we will need?
   - Name
   - Email
   - Place of Residence: Country, city / municipality
   - Affiliation (Optional)

## Other topics that may arise

---

# 2020-11-11

## Online Event 
 - 2.5 weeks to go!
 - Plan for extra meetings.
   - Friday
   - Next week
 - Abstract and program meeting today at 14
 - Abstracts only sent to those interested / invited
 - Advertising
   - DK: Birgitte/DeIC (Naoe)
   - FI: Richard will ask about CSC advertisement
   - Abstract submission deadline postponed to next Monday. (Talk about it at 14)
   - How late can we make this? 
 - Keynote titles?
   - Alys Brett. Need title.
   - Richard Darst: RSE program design for equality (Is this the title?)
 - Which platform should we use? Depends on the number of participants and abstracts.
   - HackMD + Zoom + gather.town? (since we know these tools)
   - HackMD + Zoom
     - Discussion in different breakout rooms
     - Coordinate rooms on hackpad
     - Simple, we already know all we need to do

 - Roles for the event:
   - Tech related:
   - Abstract review
 - Program practicalities
   - Scheduling and speaker coordination

 - What else needs to happen before the event?

## Nordic RSE
 - RSE survey
   - Actions needed?
   - There is a meeting Nov 17, 4 pm
 - Jeremy drafted this very good text: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r2YdGZJMgGqZWNA2Itk8Vgdu-XUoR_0iBfB2ovFx-8A/
   - Who/how is following up?
 - What to do with contact@nordic-rse.org?

## Other topics that may arise

---

# 2020-11-04

## Online Event 
 - 3.5 weeks to go!
 - Meeting frequency from here on?
   - For planning meetings we need weekly short update meetings
   - Meeting day: Wednesdays are problematic for CodeRefinery workshop contributors
 - Poll on chat to find out which day or which time is better for planning meetings. This does not mean we need to move the bi-weekly community meetings. Radovan will ask on chat about time slots (Monday or Friday, alternatively afternoons)
 - Advertising (also next point)
   - “i've announced it via SNIC training newsletter and SeRC, will do reruns in those channels and try to think of new channels”
   - Will appear in PDC newsletter
   - ~~Radovan will send to nordic-rse-announcements~~
   - ~~Radovan will talk with Vigdis (Sigma2) to get the info to Norway HPC users/ newsletter~~
   - ~~Twitter not done yet, Radovan will send current draft. We need to send something every few days.~~
   - ~~Slack on NeIC: Radovan will write~~
   - ~~“UK” RSE Slack: Radovan will write on general~~
   - ~~Naoe will ask for an email list of RSEs within UiO to Sabry and send to them.~~
   - Jarno will ask Juho about advertising through CSC
   - ~~DK: Birgitte/DeIC (Naoe)~~
   - ~~EE: Radovan will inform Ilja about the event to inform their network~~
   - ~~FI: Richard will ask about CSC advertisement~~
   - ~~FI: Richard will post to HPC users list after program a bit more refined~~
   - ~~SINTEF: Radovan~~
 - Scope of advertising: It’s about Nordic RSE, everybody who is interested in this, is welcome
 - Abstract submission deadline next Monday. 
 - Should we postpone the deadline? (When should we announce this?)
 - A couple of abstracts. How can you advertise more?
 - Proposal incubator (https://github.com/nordic-rse/meetups/issues)
 - Public discussion on a program suggestion
 - Keynote titles?
   - Alys Brett. Need title.
   - Richard Darst: RSE program design for equality (Is this the title?)
 - Which platform should we use? Depends on the number of participants and abstracts.
   - HackMD + Zoom + gather.town? (since we know these tools)

## What else needs to happen before the event?
## Nordic RSE
 - RSE survey
   - There is a meeting Nov 17, 4 pm
 - Jeremy drafted this very good text: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r2YdGZJMgGqZWNA2Itk8Vgdu-XUoR_0iBfB2ovFx-8A/
   - Who/how is following up?
   - What to do with contact@nordic-rse.org?

## Other topics that may arise

---

# 2020-10-28

 - Choose a secretary
   - Maintain these notes
   - Post a short brief on the CodeRefinery chat

## Online Event 
 - Registration and abstract submission are open!
 - A couple of abstracts. How can you advertise more?
 - Keynote titles?
 - Which platform should we use? Depends on the number of participants and abstracts.

 - What else needs to happen before the event?

## Other topics that may arise

---


# 2020-10-14

## Nordic RSE
 - When an action requires review, also assign a reviewer
 - Who has access and admin rights on GitHub? Who should?
 - In the interest of time, concentrate on the online event in this meeting?

 - GitHub organization management
   - org management became a bit of a bottleneck.
   - Thor: Add to the github organization: susamerz, eglerean, samumantha, (done)
   - Thor: Make admin: rantahar, rkdarst (done)

 - Nordic-RSE membership
   - Useful to have this set up before December, so that people can join in that event.
   - Why would someone want to join? What are we doing?  This story must be developed by December.
   - Need to collect names and locations of residence (to be a formal association)
   - where?  private google drive?

 - What is Nordic-RSE's value for its members?
   - Jeremy: a lot is for advocacy of RSE value, since that's something that you can't do alone
   - In UK it was advocating for RSE groups but that's not the only way, for example you could advocate for individual positions
   - Discussion copied to https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r2YdGZJMgGqZWNA2Itk8Vgdu-XUoR_0iBfB2ovFx-8A/edit

## Online Event 
 - 7 weeks from now :)
 - https://nordic-rse.org/nordic-events/2020-12-01-get-together/
 - Is the information on the website currently right?
 - Advertising: When and where?
 - Do we have an email template?
 - Thor: make a template email to send out
 - Enrico can help with making a twitter card header for the page [I will chat with Radovan]
 - Jarno: Check agenda (review: Richard?)

 - Keynote talks:
   - Alys:
     - Confirmed 
     - (Jeremy) Ask for title
     - slides from de-RSE: https://de-rse.org/de/conf2019/talk/ZD3B3K/
     - Alys: “This would be half the length so I'd focus on material about the history and motivation for the RSE movement (roles, groups and regional/national communities) and update for more recent developments. It's more suitable as an overview for people involved in research & software but newish to the RSE concept and community I'd say...”

   - 10 min introduction to the event Nordic RSE, CR
   - Alys (30 min plus QA), suggestion is to start 1 pm UK time, 2 pm Norway time, 3 pm Finland time
   - CodeRefinery

 - Contact email:
   - currently to Anne, Radovan, Radek: we need more people
   - To be added: ??? Jarno, Naoe
   - Use Freshdesk?

 - Abstract submission:
   - Form on NeIC Indico: ask for a 3 sentence description
   - May as well reuse that form for this workshop
   - (Issues on nordic-rse.github.io repo - no, don't change now, we will use the existing form)

 - Registration:
   - lightweight but people need to fill out short form to get connection details
   - Registration will be part of the abstract submission in indico
   - Mandatory: Name, email, privacy policy agreement
   - Optional: Country, Affiliation 


 - Proposed types of events
   - Panel session to raise the profile of some people in the community
   - Breakout sessions with questions work well and then reporting back to plenary
 - https://qiqochat.com/about
   - Issue: doesn’t offer lots of functionality
   - Users can switch between breakout rooms
   - Why not used in previous event: gets pricey quickly, charges per user and minute
 - https://remo.co/conference/ 
 - https://gather.town/
   - If too many people in same area of virtual room then video connection will flicker on and off. As long as only 5-6 people in each cluster it works fine
   - Overall good experience with this platform though
 - https://theonline.town/overview
   - Need to explore these platforms to see which work best for networking and switching between breakout rooms / sessions

 - What else needs to happen?

---

# 2020-09-30

 - December get-together (https://nordic-rse.org/nordic-events/2020-12-01-get-together/)
   - What actions are needed to make this happen?
   - Is the information on the website currently right?

## Program in the Online Event
 - Monday (Nov 30): Keynote talks
   - Alys, but needs to be confirmed
   - Suggestion: double-keynote:
      - 10 min introduction to the event Nordic RSE, CR
      - Alys (30 min plus QA), suggestion is to start 1 pm UK time, 2 pm Norway time, 3 pm Finland time - to be confirmed
      - ACTION: JC to contact Alys and confirm as soon as possible

 - Abstract submission:
   - form
   - 5 minutes
   - 3 sentence description
   - but also provide some platform (github issues on nordic-rse.github.io repo ? we can even create a separate one, let’s see) to propose and discuss ideas
   - also check https://carpentryconnect.org/online/ for reusable ideas
   - we will use the neic indico

 - Registration:
   - lightweight but people need to fill out short form to get connection details


| Tuesday (all times CET):     |     |
| -------- | -------- |
| 9 -      10: | lighting talks |
| 10 - 10:30:  | coffee / freeform conversation| 
| 10:30 - 11:30: |  Talks/workshops/events| 
| 11:30 - 12:30: |  Lunch / freeform conversation| 
| 12:30 -      14: |  Discussion sessions (some with short topic  introduction), can be a la collab workshop where a group discusses, takes notes, and the result is a speed blog - topics would be pitched in advance| 
|              |    Workshops| 
|              |    Reprohacks | 
|  14 -       : |  coffee / conversation| 



| Wednesday (same structure as tue):     |     |
| -------- | -------- |
|9 - 10: | Panel session|
|     10 - 10:30:| coffee / freeform conversation|
|10:30 - 11:30: | Talks/workshops/events|
|11:30 - 12:30: | Lunch / freeform conversation|
|12:30 -      14: | Discussion sessions (some with short topic introduction), can be a la collab workshop where a group discusses, takes notes, and the result is a speed blog - topics would be pitched in advance|
|              |  Workshops|
|              |  Reprohacks |
| 14 -       :|  coffee / conversation|

- Proposed types of events
  - Panel session to raise the profile of some people in the community
  - Breakout sessions with questions work well and then reporting back to plenary

- https://qiqochat.com/about
  - Issue: doesn’t offer lots of functionality
  - Users can switch between breakout rooms
  - Why not used in previous event: gets pricey quickly, charges per user and minute
- https://remo.co/conference/ 
- https://gather.town/
  - If too many people in same area of virtual room then video connection will flicker on and off. As long as only 5-6 people in each cluster it works fine
  - Overall good experience with this platform though
- https://theonline.town/overview
  - Need to explore these platforms to see which work best for networking and switching between breakout rooms / sessions


## Nordic-RSE in general
- What is Nordic-RSE?
- Relation to CodeRefinery
- Support International Council of RSE Associations
  - we formally support this as Nordic RSE, Anne is our delegate
- Membership / taking new people on board / github org permissions
- Other activities we can do
- What data storage locations do we have and how are they accessed?
   - Github
   - google drive
   - Twitter

- Decisions made in biweekly meeting
   - How to suggest topics?
- Create membership system
  - An association must keep a registry of its members
    - Name
    - Place of Residence
  - In addition (according to our statutes) we would need
    - Email
  - The purpose of the registry must be specified when collecting the information and cannot be prospective (cannot collect just in case). The data must be necessary for the functioning of the association.
   - Members of the association have a right to see the list of members’ names and places of residence. Email does not need to be shared
   - The form needs to include a privacy statement that describes how the information is used and for how long it is stored. For an association this is generally for the duration of the membership.
   - Make "About us" tab on nordic-rse.org, start collecting pages under there (bylaws, membership process, etc).
   - inform about community calls on the website


